News Summary: BARCELONA, Spain, March  01, 2026  (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Mobile World Congress— NVIDIA today announced a commitment — together with Booz Allen, BT Group, Cisco, Deutsche Telekom, Ericsson, MITRE, Nokia, OCUDU Ecosystem Foundation, ODC, SK Telecom, SoftBank Corp. and T-Mobile — to build the world’s next generation of wireless networks on AI-native, open, secure and trustworthy platforms.The initiative represents a shared commitment to ensure 6G infrastructure — the foundation for the world’s future connectivity — is open, intelligent, resilient and accelerates innovation and safeguards global trust.Beyond traditional connectivity, 6G wireless networks will become the fabric for physical AI, enabling billions of autonomous machines, vehicles, sensors and robots and significantly increasing demands for security and trust. Legacy wireless architectures were not designed to meet these requirements, creating challenges as networks increase in complexity.To address this, NVIDIA is bringing the industry together to advance AI-native, software-defined wireless platforms built on open and trusted principles. By embedding AI across the radio access network (RAN), edge and core, 6G networks must enable secure integrated sensing and communications, intelligence and decision-making while supporting interoperability, supply-chain resilience and faster innovation.
		“AI is redefining computing and driving the largest infrastructure buildout in human history — and telecommunications is next,” said Jensen Huang, founder and CEO of NVIDIA. “Together with a global coalition of industry leaders, NVIDIA is building AI-RAN to transform the world’s telecom networks into AI infrastructure everywhere.”Uniting on Openness and Trust for the AI-Native, Software-Defined Era of Connectivity 6G will be AI-native and software-defined, enabling wireless networks to advance at the pace of innovation. 6G networks, built on AI-RAN architecture, will continuously evolve through software, enabling real-time intelligence and rapid advancement. This transformation opens the door for a diverse ecosystem of participants — from global operators and technology providers to startups, researchers and developers — all contributing through open and programmable platforms.Allison Kirkby, chief executive of BT Group, said: “Connectivity is the backbone of economic growth, and with this collaboration, we’re helping lay the foundations for a future ecosystem that is intelligent, sustainable and secure. By building on open and trustworthy AI native platforms, we can simplify future technologies like 6G, ensuring they build upon the strengths of today’s 5G networks while still unlocking powerful new capabilities at scale.”Tim Höttges, CEO of Deutsche Telekom AG, said: “Best network, best customer experience — that remains our promise. With an open, intelligent and trusted 6G infrastructure, we are laying the foundation for the era of physical AI and unlocking new value for our customers, for industry and for society.”Arielle Roth, Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information, and Administrator at the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, said: “America’s 6G leadership will be critical to our nation’s economic prosperity, national security and global competitiveness. Today’s announcement demonstrates that the United States and our allies and partners around the world are leading in this next-generation technology. We look forward to the next steps from this international industry coalition as they advance and implement their shared 6G vision.”
		Jung Jai-hun, president and CEO of SK Telecom, said: “SKT is evolving telco infrastructure to serve as the foundation for the AI era, where connectivity serves as a platform for intelligence and innovation. Together, we can build open, trusted infrastructure that drives a global ecosystem of AI innovation.”Hideyuki Tsukuda, executive vice president and chief technology officer of SoftBank Corp., said: “Al-native 6G will transform wireless networks into secure, software-defined infrastructure that supports the next wave of global innovation. SoftBank Corp. is driving this innovation with NVIDIA by advancing open and trusted platforms that enable interoperability, resilience and continuous evolution at scale.”Srini Gopalan, CEO of T-Mobile, said: “We’re at a pivotal moment. In the U.S., we’ve laid the foundation with 5G Advanced and AI-native networks where intelligence lives inside the network. As 6G becomes the backbone of the AI era, telecom will serve as the nervous system of the digital economy, enabling autonomous systems and intelligent industries at scale and unlocking new value for customers and businesses alike. T-Mobile is proud to help define what’s next through deep ecosystem collaboration and sustained innovation.”A Shared Vision for 6G: Open, Software-Defined, AI-Native  NVIDIA participates in global private and public initiatives to advance 6G innovation, contributing open source software, accessible platforms and joint research and development projects:Together, these collaborations represent a unified commitment — supported by like‑minded governments, operators and technology partners — to shape secure, intelligent and trusted global connectivity for the next generation of wireless technology.
		About NVIDIA NVIDIA (NASDAQ: NVDA) is the world leader in AI and accelerated computing.For further information, contact: Kasia JohnstonCorporate CommunicationsNVIDIA Corporation+1-415-813-8859press@nvidia.comCertain statements in this press release including, but not limited to, statements as to: AI and telecommunications redefining computing and driving the largest infrastructure buildout in human history; Together with a global coalition of industry leaders, NVIDIA building AI-RAN to transform the world’s telecom networks into AI infrastructure everywhere; the benefits, impact, performance, and availability of NVIDIA’s products, services, and technologies; expectations with respect to NVIDIA’s third party arrangements, including with its collaborators and partners; expectations with respect to technology developments; and other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections based on management’s beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to management and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include: global economic and political conditions; NVIDIA’s reliance on third parties to manufacture, assemble, package and test NVIDIA’s products; the impact of technological development and competition; development of new products and technologies or enhancements to NVIDIA’s existing product and technologies; market acceptance of NVIDIA’s products or NVIDIA’s partners’ products; design, manufacturing or software defects; changes in consumer preferences or demands; changes in industry standards and interfaces; unexpected loss of performance of NVIDIA’s products or technologies when integrated into systems; and changes in applicable laws and regulations, as well as other factors detailed from time to time in the most recent reports NVIDIA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including, but not limited to, its annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Copies of reports filed with the SEC are posted on the company’s website and are available from NVIDIA without charge. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and speak only as of the date hereof, and, except as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.© 2026 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. NVIDIA and the NVIDIA logo are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. Other company and product names may be trademarks of the respective companies with which they are associated. Features, pricing, availability and specifications are subject to change without notice.A photo accompanying this announcement is available at https://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/acfd4c33-2372-4abd-a20d-81205c419f1f
Copyright © 2026
    Insider Inc and finanzen.net GmbH (Imprint). All rights reserved.
    Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.